.TH NODAU "1" "April 2012"
.SH NAME
nodau \- simple console notetaking program
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nodau
<OPTION> [DATA]
.SH DESCRIPTION
This manual page documents briefly the
.B nodau
command.
.PP
nodau is a simple console notetaking program.
.br
.SS "OPTIONS:"
.TP
help
print this message
.TP
list [SEARCH]
list notes, accepts optional search term
.TP
new <NAME>
create new note, <NAME> must be unique
.TP
encrypt <NAME>
encrypt a new or existing note
.TP
decrypt <NAME>
decrypt an existing note
.TP
edit <NAME>
open an existing note for editing
.TP
show <NAME>
display an existing note
.TP
del <SEARCH>
delete a note/notes, accepts name or search term
.SS "SEARCH TERM:"
.IP
search terms with spaces do not need to be inside "quotes"
.br
<NAME>          name of a note, list will search for names
similar to the term, del will delete only an exact match
.br
t@<DATESTRING>  matches notes created at a given date/time
.br
t\-<DATESTRING>  matches notes created before a given date/time
.br
t+<DATESTRING>  matches notes created after a given date/time
.SS "DATE STRING:"
.IP
<DATESTRING> can be made of any typical date format such as:
.br
dd/mm/yy
.br
dd, mm, yyyy hh:mm
.SS "EDITING:"
.IP
By default nodau will use the EDITOR environment variable to
edit notes, simply edit the file as usual, nodau will save the
note to it's database when you exit the editor. If EDITOR is not
set the nodau builtin editor will be used.
.br
Use of the builtin editor can be forced by setting
`force_builtin_editor = true' in the nodau config file.
Alternatively, the external_editor config setting can be set to
use a specific editor regardless of the EDITOR environment
variable value. `force_builtin_editor = true' takes precedence
over EDITOR and external_editor settings.
.br
The builtin editor accepts standard printable characters, enter,
and backspace. There is no support for moving the cursor with
the arrow keys or mouse. To exit the editor and save the note,
create a new line with only a dot (.) on it, or press escape.
.SS "ENCRYPTION:"
.IP
Encrypting a note will apply DES encryption to the note using a
passphrase which is requested from the user during the process.
The passphrase is then required to decrypt, edit, or read the
note. Decrypting a note will restore the note as plain text, and
the passphrase will no longer be required for access.
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was modified by Lisa Milne <lisa@ltmnet.com> from
an original written by Salvatore Bonaccorso <carnil@debian.org>
for the Debian system (but may be used by others).

